Before we move forward and make sure we also store the token in a persistent way on our computer,
so that it is also there if the app reloads because at the moment, reloading means we lose our state
and we're logged out again.
So before we take care about that and before we then also protect certain routes so that we can't even
visit /recipes if we're not logged in, before all of that happens,
let me make sure that logging out works, so that if I am logged in, clicking the logout button here does
log us out. And for that, let's go back to the auth service and in there where we have sign up and login,
let's add a logout method and logging out is super simple.
In the end, we just use our user subject and we call next and we pass null, to set our user to null.
That's our initial state and that's now the state again and
this will make sure that our entire application treats the user as unauthenticated because that's the
logic we used everywhere and therefore now,
we should update our UI and also our interceptors will not work correctly anymore for requests that
require authentication, which is exactly the behavior we want because we can't authenticate ourselves
anymore.
The missing piece of course now just is that we link this logout method to our header.
There we have that logout button,
let's now add a click listener there and call onLogout maybe and un the header.components.ts
file,
we can add on logout here and use the auth service which we're already injecting to call logout and
now let's give this a quick try, let's authenticate login and if I now click logout, this works.
One nice thing would be that we are redirected and now here, I'll not do it in the component but in my
service because whilst I only have one place for logging in in my application which is the auth component,
there are multiple possible sources which could lead to a logout,
it's not just the header component,
we will also add logic to automatically log us out once the token expired soon and therefore I want
to redirect here in the logout method in my service,
in this method here and not in a component. So therefore, let me now inject the router here into that
auth service,
router as always needs to be imported from @angular/router and with the router injected, we can
redirect here in the logout method, again to make sure that no matter how we are logged out, we always
redirect the user and we're not stuck on some component on some page where we can't do anything anymore.
So there, let's redirect to /auth,
I guess this makes sense once we're logged out.
Let's give this a final test,
if I do login here and I logout, I'm back unauthenticated.
So that is all working,
that is all nice,
the next mission will be to persist
the token
so that it is still there
once we do reload the app.